Hi, in this session,
we're going to walk you through Linux installation on the DragonBoard 410c,
but also we'll be talking a little bit about what the different flavors
of operating systems are available for the DragonBoard 410c.
So, in terms of your application development for developers,
there's a lot of different options available to
you depending on the type of the vertical you are targeting.
So the DroganBoard supports pure Android.
It supports Debian based desktop operating system,
which is more of a desktop environment.
So if somebody is starting off with the Dragonboard,
that's a good platform to start off with.
Then again, it also supports different flavors of Linux like OpenEmbedded,
Open Duo Core, Fedora,
and more to come.
So, all of these different flavors provide the developers with different options.
For example, Ubuntu Core has this snappy concept
where it does a lot of deployment enablement for developers.
So they don't have to worry about how to update
their applications out in the field and so forth and so on.
So it also supports Windows 10 IoT Core.
So a lot of different flavors are available for
developers to start talking on the DragonBoard.
And I want to add that you can always go find out more about
these different operating systems and see what people
are up to by visiting the DragonBoard 410c page.
And on that page,
you will find all these different operating system options,
to either download, find out how to build them,
they'll take it to different websites that are
available to you like the Windows 10 IoT core,
96Boards, people at Qualcomm.
They don't necessarily make this,
but Microsoft took it upon themselves to develop
an operating system for the DragonBoard because
they thought it was such a viable platform to use.
So you can go visit the Windows 10 website,
you can get access to their different images and
flashes on your DragonBoard if that's what you feel like doing.
Now, if you get stuck at any of these times,
you can always go visit the 96Boards forums page.
Many people have probably had the same questions you have had.
So, please take that upon yourself to branch out and
explore the different resources you have around these operating systems.
Great.
Now that you know all these different operating systems that are available to you,
we're going to single out one of them,
and that is the Linaro Debian Build that is
available to you through the 96Boards website,
again on the DragonBoard 410c landing page there.
So, as we look at this,
I want to first kind of go over an overview as to what we're going to cover,
then we'll dive into a screencast,
and we'll talk about what we'll actually go explore the website.
So, first off, what are we going to do?
We're going to visit the 96Boards.org website.
Why? Well, because this is where the DragonBoard 410c landing page is.
Then, we're going to look for that landing page,
click on it, navigate to it,
and you're going to basically follow this pattern,
96Boards, go to the Products,
go to the Consumer Editions section of the products,
there you will find your DragonBoard 410c.
Now, depending on what kit you got,
and we already talked about this,
you're going to be booting up into an Android image or a Debian image.
Regardless of the image you boot up into,
we want to make sure you have the most recent images on your board.
So, we would still suggest you go and check out the new operating systems.
We are going to click on the Debian one.
So, once we click on the Debian image,
we'll download it and we'll choose an install method.
Now, it might be slightly out of order here.
But yes, there you go.
So, download the image,
choose your install method.
For those of you who might be more experienced or
feel like kind of flashing different types of images on there,
you have the option to either go through an SD card option,
you can either boot from the SD card,
you can flash the image onto the local flash space,
which is the eMMC on the DragonBoard,
or you can use fastboot to flash onto the local eMMC space.
So there's different options of using an SD card or using fastboot.
That's where the choose your installation method comes from.
After that, you'll go to your host machine
depending on whether or not you're using Mac, Linux, Windows,
we have all the different instructions available to you,
and you will follow those instructions. Rajan, are you ready?
Yep.
Okay. So now that we've just kind of gone over the overview,
this is what we're basically going to do.
Now let's dive in to the screencast and check out what we were trying to explain here.
So, here we are on the screencast.
You can see I am on the 96Boards.org website.
If the letter is too small,
I hope you can see that, but just go to www.96Boards.org.
And this is the landing page you end up on.
So, as I said,
you're going to go to Products, Consumer Edition.
Now, please forgive us if some of this is wrong by the time you're watching this video,
but the idea is the same,
navigate to the DragonBoard 410c.
Here we go.
What a beautiful page?
You have a description of the DragonBoard.
You have a couple of images over here,
they're showing you the front and back just to make sure you're in the right place.
And you might notice also here,
the image doesn't have the shield on it.
So you get a nice view of that.
We're not going to click on this,
but you have a nice slow Getting Started guide in case you want documentation tutorials,
and the support will take you directly to
the 96Boards forums page that is dedicated to the DragonBoard 410c.
Great. Scrolling down. As I mentioned,
you could have one of these different kits here.
So here's four different kits.
But I'm assuming you're going to change the operating system anyways.
We are going to be working with the Debian operating system.
So let's click on Debian.
Now, do remember when I mentioned how we had different options?
Well, first let's read a second.
Go ahead and take a second and read about Debian.
I'm not going to stop here,
just pause and you can read about Debian or go to the website yourself.
Then, the different options that we have.
So, first, SD card image.
Now, one is, as I said,
SD card, image install and boot from eMMC.
This is where you install your image onto an SD card,
then you put it in your DragonBoard,
and it flashes all of the information onto your local storage.
The next option is flashing an SD card.
But then instead of taking that image and flashing it onto your local storage,
you are literally booting from your SD card.
There are advantages to both of these methods.
Now, one, the booting from your eMMC will
increase your performance because you're running off the local storage.
If you're booting from the SD card,
you will reach certain bottlenecks.
For most things, you won't notice.
However, depending on what you're doing,
this might be a limitation for you.
So, explore those options and read about it.
Now, as we mentioned,
you'll download or download.
For those of you who would like to explore fastboot options,
you can then download the bootloader, the boot image,
and then you can choose whether or not you want to have
a desktop image or developer image.
I would suggest reading more into this.
You can go explore these options or check out the forums and find out more.
So let's just assume we choose the SD card image,
and we want a boot on or flash onto the eMMC.
So, download.
I have my download going right here.
Now, we're not going to wait for this to download.
I'm just going to point out where to go after this.
Now that we've downloaded our image,
we want to find out how to install it.
Installation, there.
So it jumps us right to our documentation set for the DragonBoard 410c,
and as you can see,
it explains a little bit about installation,
and then dives into the different methods.
And as I was explaining earlier,
you can read about these methods on your own.
Installing, booting from eMMC,
this might be your method or booting onto SD card and then again, fastboot method.
Right here, since we chose to boot onto the eMMC or boot from eMMC,
we will pick our host machine under this installation method.
Now, had you chose to boot from SD card,
you could once again go down here and pick your Linux.
Now, we do hopefully plan to release more methods or more installation methods later.
But for now, there's a Linux method for installing on and booting from your SD card.
So I'm running a Mac. I know.
For me, I click Mac.
And then, here you have all of the instructions that you need to follow.
So we're not going to go through this
because I think that this is a good learning opportunity for
those of you watching to go through these instructions and do them yourself.
A wonderful thing that we have offered on the 96Boards website is
your ability to interact with everyone who's
involved with this backend and frontend website.
So if you come across a mistake or an error on any of
our instruction sets or just something that you think is just plain confusing,
you can come down to the bottom,
and you can click the Edit Me on GitHub option.
This should be available to you on every page on the 96Boards website.
It will bring you right to our backend version of
the 96Boards instruction set, any instruction set,
and you can open an issue,
you can edit it yourself,
you can fork it,
you can do basically anything that you could do on any other Git version control system.
So, a very nice feature that hopefully will
compliment your experience and
your ability to interact with those who are writing these instructions.
Now, again, this is a community effort. So we want your input.
If you find something that you are confused about please, let us know,
open an issue, submit a pull request, fork it,
submit a pull request, let us know how you feel about these instructions.
They are ever changing,
and that's the beauty of dynamic documentation.
So there you go. Edit On GitHub,
all of our documentation can be edited on GitHub.
And I would like to mention that even though we've selected Debian only for this section,
I'd imagine installing any operating system on the DragonBoard is along the same lines
and there's pretty much code instructions available
on the 96Boards website for you to follow.
Yeah. So I think what Rajan just said,
we can walk through some of these things.
Here we have, again,
the landing page on 96Boards.org.
For those of you who are interested,
you can explore all of our documentation right from the initial landing page.
So, by clicking all the documentation,
you can visit everything that has to do with 96Boards,
you can report bugs,
your contribution policy or specifications, and most importantly,
go to the DragonBoard 410c documentation set,
which is also available to you from the products page.
So you remember how we were over here on the products page?
It's completely the same as if you visit the documentation set.
You can learn how to build from source,
downloads, installation, the different downloads here that are available to you.
Again, we have Debian, OpenEmbedded, Android, Ubuntu Core,
Windows IoT Core, Fedora, and SUSE.
They're on their way up to the website.
There's a lot of really cool stuff going around the DragonBoard 410c.
So I think it's time to recap. What do you think?
Yeah.
Okay.
So, as a recap here,
we want to give you the chance to pause,
reflect, and check out all these different links.
I highly suggest taking,
I mean, but 10 minutes is probably not enough.
Yeah.
Take some time, go poke through all these URLs and get to
know the DragonBoard 410c and your resources around the different operating systems.